as we all know the subject of money
isn't taught in schools most people
learn about the topic of money at home
from their parents but what our parents
actually teaching their kids about money
what makes a difference between somebody
who will eventually become rich and
successful and someone who won't so
today let's go over ten things that rich
teach their kids about money that the
poor don't if you like videos about
business money in psychology make sure
to subscribe and hit the belt button to
not miss any of our value pact videos
and I got a big surprise for you at the
end of this video and let's get started
number one rich parents teach their kids
the importance of money
virtually all self-made millionaire or
anyone who've achieved financial success
believes that money is very important
and is one of the first things they
teach their kids about money rich
parents often show how important money
is regardless of whether they believe
money is important for happiness or not
they know that money is important to
have options and a better quality of
life even if they only consider money as
a resource and nothing else most rich
people understand that money gives them
freedom from the ability to choose their
location for their next vacation to the
freedom to choose where to live and even
the ability to help others they know
that they can have a less financially
stressful life when they have an
abundance of money the poor on the other
hand rarely talk about money and some
even say that money is not important
this can affect their kids on the long
term because they will grow up in a
financially driven society while
neglecting their financial life all
because they think of money as not
important number two they teach the
difference between assets and
liabilities one of the most important
and basic concepts of building financial
independence is understanding the
difference between assets and
liabilities if you haven't heard of
these before assets are things that
bring money into your bank account and
liabilities do the opposite they take
money out of your bank account for
example if you buy a house and you rent
it out to someone it is an asset because
it brings cash flow every month in form
of rent if you buy a house to live in
then it's a liability because it takes
money out of your pocket every month
many rich parents teach their kids to
build them by asset
and avoid liabilities this way they can
create a business or investments that
generate cash flow on a recurring basis
and avoid the things that generate a
negative cash flow on their bank account
so they can have a surplus of money they
also understand the power of using
assets to detach your time from your
income since assets generate cash flow
whether you are physically putting in
the work or not you are able to scale
and use your time to develop more assets
rich people often focus on understanding
and teaching the spending patterns of
the poor versus the rich and why some
people earning the same salary end up
becoming rich while others stay poor for
example let's say that we have two
people making six thousand dollars per
month but they have very different
spending patterns the first one gets
their paycheck and paces bills and
enjoys his money going out shopping
getting the newest phone and the latest
TV indulging in the finest restaurants
getting a new car a nice house and all
of that nice stuff they typically spend
their money on things that make them
look good and wealthy but they actually
come back home to build in a lot of debt
they typically have little to no savings
and have years of debt on their credit
cards car payments and mortgage payments
they are stuck in the rat race and they
will take years to get out now let's see
the second person he also makes $6,000
per month but this person does not buy a
nice house or a nice car he doesn't go
out every weekend and he doesn't go to
the fancy restaurants he occasionally
buys clothes when he needs them but he
doesn't follow the fashion trends every
season
he lives on a $3,000 a month budget and
puts away the other $3,000 by the end of
the year he has $36,000 and puts them
into cash flow investments that
increases his monthly income he
continues living on his $3,000 a month
budget and by the following year he's
able to invest in at 36 but $40,000
since he increased the Sinkin and two
investments that generate cash flow ten
years later these two individuals will
be in two completely different places
all due to their spending habits there's
a quote from Robert Kiyosaki that says
looking good but going nowhere which
means that many people spend their money
to look a rich
while actually being poor in the
meantime rich people look poor while
getting rich now a lot of people might
be saying there's a lot of rich people
who have nice things nice houses fancy
cars and all of that luxury stuff and
yes it's true but the main difference
here is that poor people use their own
money or go in debt to buy their
luxuries the rich have their assets buy
luxuries for them if you want a car that
costs you 500 dollars per month well
it's time to build another asset that
generates you $500 or more per month
this way your bank account is unaffected
when you buy this liability that is
another crucial element that many rich
parents teach their kids number three
how to manage their money a very good
way many wealthy parents teach their
kids about money is by letting them into
their planning and managing of their
household expenses many of these parents
include their kids when they go over
their financial statements and plan
their budgets they often familiarize
their kids on the reality of having
living expenses this gives their
children the experience of managing
money from an early age which can help
when they grow older and they have to
manage their own money this is a big
contrast to many parents with a poor
mentality the majority of parents rarely
talk about money especially their own
income
they typically plan their monthly
budgets without their kids if they even
plan at all and often associate a
negative attitude when planning their
monthly expense budget oftentimes
parents argue and express negative
feelings about planning their monthly
budgets causing their kids to take on
similar planning patterns which
translates to similar behaviors later in
life rich parents know that living
expenses are a reality of the modern
life and focus on associating good
emotions on their living expenses as odd
as that might sound
many people are grateful for those
living expenses because it provides them
with a roof over their heads and the
ability to live comfortably number four
the different ways of earning money one
thing that I've noticed many wealthy
parents teach their kids is that
different ways to earn money did you
know that the daughter of former
President Barack Obama had a normal
customer service job many other wealthy
people have their kids
get a normal job there are a few reasons
for this but one of them is to be able
to have them experience that different
ways money is earned and teach them how
each of them work for example one of
them is exchanging time for money
whether that is working on a job or
freelancing the second is to build
systems that generate you money or
having money work for you like building
a business and leveraging the time of
other people as employees leveraging
online systems that provide automation
or using money to buy assets that
generate income for you which is
illustrated in the book cashflow
quadrant by Robert Kiyosaki the rich
focus on understanding and teaching
these principles to give their kids the
freedom to not be stuck and only one way
of making money but give them the
ability to learn the other ways money is
made on the other hand most poor parents
only know one way of making money which
is typically exchanging time for money
and sadly is the only thing they teach
their kids and they eventually grow up
only knowing one way to make money which
limits their true earning potential
number five developing productive habits
the Brits know that is not what you do
that makes you wealthy but what you do
consistently
if the wealthy parents are self-made
they know that in order to achieve
financial wealth they must work and
carry out their plans on a consistent
basis is not just about taking action
once or working hard once but doing it
over up her long period of time and the
best way to do that is by building
habits things that you come to do
naturally so many wealthy parents focus
on developing productive habits on their
children so they can attract wealth
themselves more naturally in the future
this can be as simple as starting their
day with a set of accomplishments or to
always look at how they can bring value
to others not only that but many wealthy
parents teach their kids how to build
their own habits learning how to build
habits is one of the best skills anyone
can have understanding the psychology
behind modifying your own habits can be
extremely powerful for our child's
long-term success number six no one owes
you anything self-made millionaires and
those who got wealthy with their own
work know how much it takes to create
wealth for them and their
they know that they will only get what
they fight for and no one owes them
anything this is especially important
for rich people because in many
occasions their kids grew up in a
wealthy environment where they can feel
like they deserve to have a piece of
their parents wealth they understand
that this sense of entitlement can be a
huge disservice to their kids in the
future and teaching a concept of earning
your success becomes very important to
them Bill Gates and Warren Buffett two
of the richest men in the world have
similar philosophies they will not leave
their kids with their wealth and will
only leave them with a miniscule amount
of inheritance as Bill Gates said in an
interview in 2011 they have to find
their own way they try to install a
sense of Independence and hard work so
their kids can find their own success
number seven social and influence skills
this is something that isn't talked
about enough in the financial and
business world but is one of the most
important the ability to socialize and
communicate with others can open up a
lot of opportunities that otherwise
wouldn't happen the ability to create
influence with those around you creates
a sense of leadership installing that
skill to understand people's emotions
motivations and behaviors early on can
provide an incredible tool for the
future setting kids up to be strong and
influential leaders number eight delayed
gratification in other words patience
the rich understand that completing a
massive goal then building wealth takes
time and they must be patient while
working hard at their craft and that is
one of the skills they often teach their
kids that eventually their hard work
will pay off the majority of people
prefer short-term pleasures like buying
the nice car or the fancy house right
away or they might start a business and
leave when it's not profitable in the
first year and they pass down the same
behaviors to their children I really
like something that Gary Vaynerchuk says
when it comes to this topic and that is
to have micro speed and macro patience
meaning we must work hard consistently
every day and be patient for the big
picture as he says most people are slow
on the day-to-day
and want to be successful the next day
number nine there is always more money
an incredibly important mindset that the
rich have is that there is always more
most people think that there is a
limited amount of money in the world and
that believe translates to their bank
accounts while the poor might feel like
there is not enough money to rich know
that there is always more money out
there whether it's to fund a new
business or take a vacation they know
that there is a lot of money out there
and their job is to get it the poor
think that their salary is their
financial limit and they will have to
live under this financial ceiling which
is a scarcity driven mindset the
original that there is no limit on how
much they can earn and money is out
there waiting for them to attract it
which is an abundant mindset this is a
simple concept that can play a major
role in our financial decisions while
most people focus on saving money and
reducing cost the rich focused on
increasing their income this doesn't
mean that the rich don't focus on
reducing the expenses but they invest
more time and energy in increasing their
cash flow over reducing a few small
expenses as a business owner having a
scarce mindset can limit the
enterpreneur earning potential
there are many entrepreneurs who don't
charge what they deserve for their
products and services simply because
they feel guilty for charging money to
others they might feel like they are
doing a disservice to their clients by
taking their money but an intrapreneur
with an abundant mindset knows that
anyone has enough money for the things
they really want and if a potential
customer wants their product who are
they to deny it if you take a look at
society people always have money for the
things that they really want if they
want to go on a nice vacation
they spend months saving for it if they
want to invest in their education they
will work an extra shift to buy that
course if they want to begin investing
they will work hard and save to start
investing there is always more money for
the things we want our job is to go and
get it number 10 the best way to make
money is to help others an important
lesson that the rich teach their kids is
that the most powerful way to make money
is to solve other people's problems and
the bigger the problem
the bigger the paycheck it is no secret
that the most successful people in the
world have solved or at least aid in
solving big problems in the world from
Steve Jobs for revolutionary in the
technology music and communication
industry to Henry Ford for transforming
the personal transportation industry to
Oprah Winfrey for making a global impact
in the self-development world all made a
huge impact in helping others solve a
problem most poor people focus on
getting paid based on tasks efforts and
time while the rich focus on providing
results and solving problems providing
value is the rich person's game and they
get paid based on the amount of value
they provide in a bonus one number
eleven they understand they don't know
everything something that the majority
of people don't know is that rich and
successful people get together in groups
called masterminds they know that it is
impossible for them to know everything
so they spend time with others who know
things they don't so they can improve
their own business and their own life
they seek mentors and coaches who are
experts and the things that they wish to
learn and they are constantly developing
new skills and building new
relationships at the beginning of this
video I said that I had something
special for you I know that a lot of you
guys are looking to build a profitable
YouTube channel so I decided to open up
a test group for a four-week training
program that will come out next year
called the social influencers Academy
there I will show you everything I've
learned about building a profitable
youtube channel and turning it into an
automatic online business so if you've
been thinking about building a
successful YouTube channel a profitable
business attached to it and be mentored
directly under the betterment project
make sure to fill out the application in
the description of this video there will
only be a few spots available before we
close access to the group and I will see
you in the next video
